What to wear on the first day of school

2016-11-20T18:22:00.000+02:00

http://fashion.about.com/cs/whattowear/a/firstdayofschoo.htm

What to wear on the first day of school Keep it simple! By Casey 
The first day of schoolmeans it's a time for renewal in teen fashion (read: a time to find a great new look!). 
The first day of school is the first appearance you have after three whole months - make it a good one, because first impressions matter. 
Here are a few things to keep in mind when choosing your big debut ensemb: Keep things simple and classic, nothing in-your-face or over the top. It's okay to be a little trendy, but you have to adapt the trends to your personal style, or you'll end up looking like a major trend-chaser. Put on the confidence! If you don't have it, fake it. When you aren't doubting yourself, no one else will doubt you or your clothing choices. Create the Outfit 
The idea behind a great first-day-of-school is a killer ensemble. Just make sure you can back up your outfit and will keep your dressing pattern consistent - don't wear an ultra trendy, right-off-the-runway look and then turn around and wear simple jeans & a tee combo the rest of the year. 
continue reading below our video Jean Styles You Can Wear All Year Around 
Look good, but nothing too dressy or attention-grabbing (only exception is if that's the look you're going for the whole school year!). 
Here are several looks to consider for a first day style: Chic & understated. Black tee with dark denim hipsters, black boots, low-slung black belt, plus an oversized eye-catching necklace in turquoise, silver, or coral. Tres chic! One part western, one part sophisticated. Distressed bootcut jeans, fitted striped oxford (stay away from plaid to avoid a complete cowgirl look), fringed belt, and pointy-toe boots. Remember to coordinate shoes and belt! Athletic-inspired. Although a too-cute track suit is absolutely perfect for any other school day, it's just too casual. Instead, wear a sleek, colorful hoodie in terry or velour with a sharp denim mini, fitted tank, and bright new sneaks. Updated Gypsy. Change the vibe of serious chino trousers (low-rise, a little baggy, but still chic) with a hippie-esque embroidered peasant top. Throw on a few beaded bracelets and add a pair of semi-dressy kitten-heeled sandals. Add the accessories 
Accessories definitely make or break the clothing. The perfect shoe & belt combination, plus jewelry is required for any great look. 
Here arethree things that you need to fully accessorize this school year: Chandelier earrings. So elegant, yet so easy to pull off! These gorgeous jewels look just as great with an evening gown as they do with a feminine top and denim. Trendy sneaks. Required both for those stylishly sporty and those just plain stylish. A great pair of sneaks can take you anywhere. Boots. Whether you choose a sleek black or distressed brown leather style, the look will definitely be hot! Important stuff 
Your school necessities should be funky and fresh, just like your style. 
Search for cool versions of old classics - denim or corduroy messenger bags, bright backpacks, cute notebooks, girlie pens. Look for femme backpacks at kid's clothing stores where there's lots of eye-catching pink, purple, green, orange, etc. Check stationary or office supply stores for stylish paper and pens. 
Also try re-decorating certain things: decoupage notebooks (add glitter, stickers, ribbon, magazine pics, and other pretty items), cover a binder with Autumn-ish materials like corduroy, or girlify a backpack with ribbons, buttons and fabric paint. The rest of the week 
Okay, so you get the first day over with while wearing a completely fabulous outfit. but now you have the rest of the week to worry about! 
Make a point that you don't get all dressy and cute the first day, and then every other day wear trainers and track pants. 
I suggest that the whole week (although I normally plan the entire month of September. yeah, it's an obsession!) is planned out in outfits. That way you can focus on what school is really about - homework and important stuff (don't forget guys, friends, socializing.).